docs(ins): add indentify devices docs (#2900)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/instances/reference-content/identify-devices.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Identifiying devices of an Instance
  description: This page explains how to identify devices on an Instance
content:
  h1: Identifying devices of an Instance
  paragraph: This page explains how to identify devices on an Instance
tags: instance
dates:
  validation: 2024-03-15
  posted: 2024-03-15
categories:
  - compute
---

> An Instance is composed of a multitude of devices. Some of them can be configured, such as network interfaces and block devices, for example by attaching a SBS volume to the Instance, or attaching the Instance to a Private Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Instance is composed of a multitude of devices. Some of them can be configured, such as network interfaces and block devices, for example by attaching an SBS volume to the Instance or attaching the Instance to a Private Network.
```

On a Linux host, devices are named by the kernel in the order they are discovered. The order in which devices are discovered is dependent on things such as the topology of the PCI hierarchy which are *not* guaranteed to be stable across poweroff/poweron/reboot actions.

> This guide will focus on giving clues on the identification of devices in a stable manner on a Linux host.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide aims to provide tips to help you identify devices in a stable manner on a Linux host.
```

```

The filter selects the Network controller device class/Ethernet controller device subclass. Three PCI devices are visible, which correspond to the public network device, and two VPC Private Network devices. By itself, the output of this command

> is not enough to distinguish between public and private networks, and can not distinguish between multiple private networks either: this simply confirms their existence in the PCI hierarchy of the Instance.

Reviewer 3: Why is the sentence cut? Shouldn't the "is not enough" part be next to "this command"?

Reviewer 4: I think I did that to avoid a long line, since in markdown-like languages and empty line is usually needed to get a newline. But yes, it's pretty arbitrary and could just be a single line here.

Reviewer 3: Ok got it! Maybe we can split the two sentences by skipping the line from "By itself" so the paragraph isn't too crowded!
